---
title: Celeste - Proverb
layout: post
categories: [Celeste]
tags: [Story]
---

What’s the point of saying things like that?

I understand wanting to help someone, but don’t you ever think that the things you say to people don’t make sense? There’s a comfort in words designed to be reassuring, but some of them don’t make sense to me.

Like, “It hurts to see you like this.” Why does that matter? Does it not hurt them more to know that they’re hurting the people around them? I don’t think anyone ever wants to be sad. To let them know that their mood affects their others surely wouldn’t make them feel better, would it.? If I was upset, I’d rather you were to put on your bravest face and show only joy or comfort.

I don’t know, I think that there are better things to say. Rather than saying “it hurts to see you like this,” perhaps there’s something better. If your natural reaction to saying that is to follow it with “so let me help you,” then why not just ask to help them from the beginning? I don’t think that you need to justify a reason to help someone.

There are many other old proverbs that I don’t understand the use of. Like when you say “Every rose has it’s thorn” or “Everything has a cost.” If you mean to say that no good thing can come without a drawback or selfish reason, then you’d be saying something misleading. It’s true that life is filled with give and takes, but there’s no reason to force yourself to become hyper focused on what hidden meaning there is behind everything.
	
ake for instance, a friendship. If someone purchased you gifts, is there really a secret reason they have for doing so? Well of course they do. They want to make someone they appreciate happy. It doesn’t mean they need you to reciprocate, perhaps they just enjoy seeing you smile. Maybe they want to spread joy to the people they think deserve it. There’s a deeper reason for it, but it doesn’t always have to be nefarious.

And why do you see the need to say “all good things have to come to an end?” What’s the point? Sure, it’s hard to accept when a great thing is over. A day of celebration or the time of youth all are good things that have a set end, but what does the saying really do? In truth, doesn’t everything have to come to an end? It would be like saying that every green apple rots. It’s a true statement, but there’s no reason to say it when it’s a common fact that all apple will eventually spoil.

Everything has a set point where it will crumble to dust. Every food has an expiration date. Every story has an ending. Each person has a set point in the future in which every last memory of them is finally forgotten, and the footprints they left in the world have all been covered by a layer of dirt thick enough that it was as if they were never there. So, yes, every good thing must come to an end. But why does that matter? Wouldn’t it be nicer to tell them that every bad thing will have to come to an end too?
	
…
	
...Hey, why are you crying?
