---
title: Poems (Past - 2021)
layout: post
categories: [Other, Archived]
tags: [Poetry]
---


#### August 12th, 2019 ####
## An Unfinished Puzzle ##
A poem about not fitting in quite right.

A spectrum of light reaching through clouds,\\
Effulgent light breaking through the sky.\\
The piece looked like it was from a dream\\
But it didn’t fit, so I was forced to say goodbye.

An immaculate feather of a beautiful blue jay,\\
The sign of a soaring prodigy destined to fly.\\
The piece looked like it was sent from the heavens\\
But it didn’t fit, so I was forced to say goodbye.

A lone petal of a blooming rose,\\
The crimson landing pad for a colorful butterfly.\\
The piece looked like it was sculpted by professionals\\
But it didn’t fit, so I was forced to say goodbye.

While I took the path less travelled,\\
I found myself lost in a dark forest without direction.\\
Though lost in a sea of dispiriting sorrow,\\
I begin looking for a matching piece; looking for some form of affection.

The beauty I witness invites me to a world that doesn’t fit.\\
But I can’t continue with a piece that doesn’t click.\\
If I bend my tabs and blanks for a life that doesn’t match,\\
I’d end up as a pile of crushed paperboard, like a clock that doesn’t tick.

Am I destined to find the piece that I fit with?\\
Or must I compromise to connect somewhere, forced to watch my edges crumble.\\
I take my stride across the unlit path, compiling courage and leaving my footprint trail.\\
Until that fateful day, I’ll remain a body without a heart; an unfinished puzzle.

#### October 29th, 2020 ####
## Snakes in the Shower ##
A poem about negative voices.

Turning on the shower\\
Warm water spilling out onto the floor\\
A lengthy sigh escapes into the scalding steam.\\
In rhythmic tapping of drops on my back\\
My eyes softly close as steam encircles me,\\
And I sink to the floor underneath the water stream.

Sitting in the shower\\
With water rolling down my skin\\
My wet hair drops down like snakes on my head.\\
First one, then two, then the whole family\\
My shaky exhale stumbles out into the air\\
As my cold, dormant heart fills up with dread.

Sighing in the shower\\
As my snake family begins to speak\\
All the words that I find I’m afraid of.\\
First one, then two, the the whole family\\
Each spitting out scalding insults I try to escape from\\
As tears stream out like the warm water above.

Crying in the shower\\
The snakes screaming louder\\
My thoughts starting to whirl and my mind beginning to swirl\\
“You’ll never be as good as him”\\
“Your choices will never get you anywhere”\\
“The people you trust will betray one once more”

“They wanted a boy, not a girl”

Turning off the shower\\
Snakes spitting out their last drops of water\\
I take my towel and rub the tears from my eyes.\\
As I stand before the mirror\\
And comb my wet hair\\
I say goodbye to my snake family of lies.

#### December 25th, 2020 ####
## Nobody Cares ##
A poem about a particularly irksome phrase I hear often.

Nobody cares\\
Because you’re someone new\\
And what you’re passionate about\\
Is something we haven’t been through

Nobody cares\\
Because we have no connection\\
And can’t stand to listen\\
So we raise this objection

Nobody cares\\
Is a common reaction\\
From people I talk with\\
When I reveal a passion

Well I don’t care\\
That you can’t stand me to be excited\\
I don’t think that it’s fair\\
That my happiness is unrequited

Nobody cares\\
Is the stupid excuse you deploy\\
Just because you can’t bear\\
To listen to what brings me joy

Nobody cares\\
Because I’ll just go elsewhere\\
And talk to all the people\\
That I know still care

#### May 27th, 2021 ####
## Ice Cream on a Cold Night ##
A poem about things that are bittersweet

There’s an odd beauty\\
In ice cream on a cold night\\
Feeling the cold breeze on your neck\\
As you bask quietly in the moon’s light.\\
And as you close your eyes\\
Finding a pleasant warmth in each bite\\
You let down all your walls\\
As you dig into your frozen delight.

As you take a brief respite\\
Sitting on the swings in an empty park\\
There’s a strange charm\\
In watching shadows play tricks in the dark.\\
The feelings of loneliness don’t attack you\\
Even across from the empty bench,\\
Looking over to watch the empty swing set\\
And see faces from the past fill the gaps.

There’s an odd beauty\\
In reflecting on an old memory\\
Living in a time that has passed\\
Like a recurring dream.\\
And seeing that face next to you\\
Brings a pain to your heart\\
But the feeling is numbed\\
By the cold of your ice cream.


Even as the memories\\
Reach and cling to you heart\\
The cold of the night and your frozen treat\\
Keep the tears from your eyes.\\
And in your brief respite\\
Sitting on the swings of a park from times past\\
You let the past run free\\
And play in the shadows until the sunrise.

There’s an odd beauty\\
In ice cream on a cold night\\
That reminds you that one day\\
Everything will be alright.

