---
title: Nintendo's Pricing Might Require Additional Thought, From Them and You
layout: post
categories: [Articles, April_2025_Portfolio]
tags: [Article]
---

When things come down to money, I always have to step back and look at just what the cost is—not just in dollars, but in impact too.

Our discussion is courtesy once again of the Switch 2 Nintendo Direct, revealing the console would be priced at $449 (450, let’s be honest) on its launch later this year. For those who aren’t keeping track, this is their most expensive console since the $350 Wii U and the $300 Switch 1. Most of the beloved ones, like the Wii and 3DS, were around $250 (although we’ll discuss that later). The large gap is obviously a steep price point—improved hardware and increased demand are obvious sources, but I want to look at more of the details that come from these price increases. For that, I’ll go off script from what most articles are discussing and cross reference a few things to begin.

Our original Xbox 360 dropped at $399 and the PS3 was $499 at launch. This is a stark contrast to their current prices for their modern counterparts at $499 and $699 respectively. I bring this up not to illustrate a pattern to excuse Nintendo of their actions, but to explain the way in which prices can be normalized. With how sparsely we interact with the prices for consoles, the slow increases can be slipped in and normalized as standard practice. Another example that I noticed and inspired this train of thought: Controllers. While the standard wireless Xbox 360 controller retailed for $40 and the Dualshock 3 for $55-60, the Xbox Series X controller now retails for $60 and the Dualsense a hefty $75. Of course, I’d be a fool not to mention the uptick in AAA games going from a $60 to $70 price tag, with Mario Kart World for the Switch 2 now rising to $80.

I understand that inflation or improved technology can be a major factor when it comes to price changes like this, and I want to note that while I move into this article. I’ve had my discussions with various people on some of these things, and I do want to attribute a part of these prices toward unchangeable factors.

This comes with the caveat that a cheap or refurbished laptop costs $200, an 8BitDo Ultimate 2C Wireless Controller costs $30, and a copy of Celeste costs $20 when it’s not on sale (like it was yesterday).

Gaming is universal, and hardware and peripherals are only so important when it comes to the sweep of simple and small indie and classic games. And my estimates weren’t skimping on anything—the laptop might be rather variable, but the Ultimate 2C is probably one of the best controllers on the market and Celeste as a game isn’t even my cheapest example of a peak in gaming that doesn’t require crazy hardware. Sure, the experiences of Monster Hunter Wilds and Helldivers 2 are locked behind graphics cards and Bloodborne and Mario Party are hidden behind console exclusives, but they’re a drop in the ocean compared to some of the experiences free and accessible to everyone.


With these details, I really want to explore what the price increase really affects—the perception of the value of gaming in terms of money towards other corporations. Competition and pricing in a capitalist society is much more complex than just “supply and demand,” but let me put it this way—when you consider what a “full priced” game is, what do you say?

Maybe you say $70? If it were me, I’d still firmly say $60. Others might be only willing to say $40. But with the release of an $80 base game with the Switch 2, we could see this number continue to rise. While indie devs struggle to make competitive pricing in a sea of a market, the expected budget and production costs as well as the value expected to be made is rising steadily in the AAA game’s market. More detail, more levels, more maps, and more content as the games are more demanding on hardware and space. Gaming is getting bigger—a size difference that has now been punctuated by the $450 console successor to one of the most successful in history. We stand her, in limbo between announcement and debut of this console, and have no say but to watch as it hits markets and possibly sets a new market price.

There’s a way this works out—longtime followers of Nintendo might remember that the 3DS was not priced at $250 forever. In July of 2011 the console price was reduced drastically to $170, promising a sweep of retro games to those who purchased it at full price previously. This was done, presumably, because the steep price caused a decrease in sales and potential profit. The issue is that many people will likely purchase it regardless—previous Switch owners who have faith in the console enough to purchase it at the new price or families during the upcoming christmas. These people are not the enemy, and anyone should be allowed to purchase the console at its price without guilt. The issue is with the form in which this price tag will set industry standards and cause a ripple effect to increase prices around the world. This is linked to the uneven regional prices that people have to deal with—the increase in price in Canada or the UK in comparison to the United States due to currency differences. Pricing and choices don’t just change availability—they hinder accessibility. While we can direct people towards cheaper methods of gaming (as seen above with my $250 example), marketing and name brand priority will turn people away from being able to enjoy experiences like we’ve all come to love in gaming.

So consider your purchase of the Nintendo Switch 2 when it releases this June—not out of guilt, but out of a curiosity towards what is going on within the industry. Enjoy the time spent with this new era of gaming, but I inspire you to help share the experience with others that might not have the chance. This isn’t just in recommending budget gaming options like I did, but in also inviting others to join you on the couch for some local play.

I referenced my privilege to own as many consoles as I did in my youth, and both me and my brother were friends with people from underprivileged parts of our city who weren’t able to afford the experiences we did. We both felt this guilt, whether knowingly or not, and spent a lot of our time in middle and high school inviting people to enjoy the games we loved and were lucky to afford. Local play to share gaming in an accessible way for friends was a big part of our bonding—if you have the opportunity to do so, I highly recommend it.

While Nintendo contemplates their price tag and you contemplate your purchase, I’ll stand by for now. With a steady job and some free income, I may end up purchasing the Switch 2 as well. Even so, I’ll keep working to inspire and include others in one of my favorite passions as best as I can.

And please, if you haven't, play Celeste. It’s really good.
