---
title: Why I'm Doing This (This Being Writing Articles And Extras)
layout: post
categories: [Articles]
tags: [Article]
---

Note: This article was written for Patreon last month. If you'd like to see articles and extras like this as well as support me as I attempt to make a living off this, come by to my [patreon](https://www.patreon.com/skylercomet) and start today!

Hi everyone! It's been a while since I've really posted to Patreon in a meaningful way. Part of that is just how stressful university life got when I was getting close to the end, but a lot of that was just lack of inspiration when trying to find my vocation. I think I finally have it, and that's why I'm writing this. That's why I'm doing this.

Let's rewind a bit first.

The 30 articles in 1 month challenge I wrote on my website in April 2025 was a clever test to myself. It was a journey to figure out if I had it in me to write in the journalism field as I have so far. I wanted this to be something I was doing early so that when I left university I had something to pursue.  That, of course, didn't work when the actual journalism field was then full of poorly paid freelance work I couldn't even apply for and no proper entry I could find over months. I realized I had to work to do this myself.

Fast forward to the beginning of 2026 as I set this up—writing is now plagued (and has been for a bit) by generative AI and the ability to gather reliable information is starting to be affected. In addition, journalism in the gaming sphere is now full of filler articles and repetition in order to fill ad slots. That's the purpose of what I want to do—I want to find a space and carve it out to provide interesting, fulfilling written work about media and the things we're all passionate about.

This isn't something easy of course—starting a Patreon and streaming isn't enough for me to properly fund my own writing for more than what I'm currently working on—two articles a week, one for free and one on here. I have to supplement my income with a part time job that I want to get out of as fast as possible to try and pursue this to its logical conclusion.

I'm calling upon you all for that reason—my work doesn't properly nab attention like bigger article websites and I'm doing my best to properly advertise things, but your financial support as well as you spreading the word to friends and family is what will help me reach my goals. I don't want to share exactly where I want to end up money wise, but I am trying to hit a certain threshold by 2027 to then expand my operations. 

This article will be posted publically in March, but for now this is a preview of what's to come. For anyone on Patreon, you'll have exclusive articles and behind the scenes to enjoy while I continue writing weekly articles for everyone at my website. I hope to make more things, such as videos and streams, to supplement the rest of this and create something not only worth the pricing of my Patreon but worth your time and attention

That's all for now, I hope to see you all here soon!
